FAQ:

Q: How do I add songs?
A: Tap the "Songs" button and either click "New" to type/paste chord sheets directly or click-and-drag your .txt or .json files in there to add them!

Q: How do I share songs between devices?
A: You can save a song as a .txt file, or if you click the ... on the edge of a song folder and select "Export," it'll give you a .json of the whole folder to move between devices! If you want to share your whole library, you can select "Export" at the bottom of the Songs menu and use that file as well. If your song is ready to publish to our online library, you can do that as well!

Q: Why are my chord diagrams showing the wrong instrument?
A: By default, they show a guitar in E Standard. You can click the "Diagrams" button under the "Chords" tab to change it to whatever you'd like!

Q: Hey, I think this chord is wrong!
A: My bad! Tell me which and I’ll fix it. Part of this project's scope creep resulted in writing an engine to find chords programmatically, occasionally substituting them for preferred/common voicings. I am unconscious of intentional error, but nevertheless too sensible of my defects.

Q: Can you make it so we can download songs directly from Ultimate Guitar/Musescore/Other services?
A: I’d really like to, but then I would run into this unfortunate issue called That’s Illegal and They’ll Get Me. Nobody can stop you from copy/pasting things in from there and circulating your collections offline, though! If you’re savvy, there’s always a way. 

Q: Can I make an account so my songs are all saved between my different devices?
A: No! I don't have the programming know-how to give people secure logins and I wouldn't trust anything I programmed to keep your passwords safe. Trust me, it's better this way... I don't want to be responsible for a data breach and let database management ruin what is otherwise a pretty good tool! 

Q: Why isn’t [Feature] included?
A: I threw this together over the course of about 3 months. My job is in a different field entirely, I only really learned programming due to frustration with elements of the modern world and a desire to make my own life and the life of people around me a little bit easier. If a feature is feasible/would improve UX enough I’ll find time to make it happen.


Credits: 

Fonts are Typographer Gotisch (by Dieter Steffmann and Peter Wiegel, used in a non-commercial capacity) and Valeson by Jeremy Dooley (Used with a standard application license). 

Default soundfont is from the FluidR3 soundbank. Backing track is built out of Sergey Surikov's WebAudioFont.

YIN pitch detection algorithm by de Cheveigné & Kawahara (2002).

Default tunes are by Jay Ungar and my dear friend Corwin Zekley (check out their bands Towse & Raven and Goose!!!). When the Saints go Marching In is traditional, Worth the Weight is by me!

Special thanks to our Anonymouse Angel Investor for providing the needed funds to bring this app to the app store! Additional thanks to the actual geniuses at Technimo who managed to make lead sheets such an accessible text-only format for iReal Pro (A much better app than this one which is definitely worth the sticker price if you have the money), The Session website for curating such a fine selection of traditional music and hilarious comment section arguments, and anyone who has ever uploaded chord sheets, tabs, or anything of the like to the internet. Thank you all for helping bring us together through the world of music.

Beta testers: Chris Smit, Ross Heitkamp, Hulda Elira, Alex Smith, Oscar Law, Em Sollerman, Olly Andrews, Lorcan Dempsey, and Kristina Pereyra!

Magic Scroll was designed and programmed by Spencer “Sunny” California, given freely to the people without charge. All of the art/images were also by Spencer, given reluctantly to the people also without charge. This project is dedicated to my mother Kristina, who is part of the reason I got into music and entirely the reason I became the person I am. 


